Title: June Meet Minutes
Date: 2015-07-10 19:00
Tags: Meeting Minutes
Summary: <img src="http://photos1.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/1/a/2/e/global_439206702.jpeg"/> <img src="http://photos3.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/1/a/1/6/global_439206678.jpeg"/> <img src="http://photos3.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/1/a/6/d/global_439206765.jpeg"/>

The June edition of Chennaipy meetup happened on 27th. I have started
this weird habit lately of relating the meetup to the end of a
month. So when the meetup date approaches, you kind of know - Oh, so
another month is about to get over. The meetup notification for June
kind of scared me a bit as it was only then it dawned on me that half
the year is gone leaving behind only piled up todo lists. Believe it
or not RSVPing Yes to the meetup brings a sort of closure - in the
sense a thought deep inside that the month is going to end on a high
with that feel-good feeling.

<a
href="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/1/9/e/7/600_439206631.jpeg">
<img
src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/1/9/e/7/event_439206631.jpeg"
style="float:right"/></a>

If I recall correctly, this was the 7th time IMSc is hosting Chennaipy
and what a great venue it is. This coincidentally was my 7th meetup
too or in other words I haven't attended a Chennaipy meetup
elsewhere. I would have missed this edition, but then some good
fortune smiled out of somewhere and I was able to make it.

The schedule for June edition was really promising. All the four talks
looked very interesting from the meetup agenda page, the talks were on
diverse topics and all Chennaipy aficionado's would have been eager to
attend this edition of meetup. My flatmate a Pythonista himself
quipped a day before the meetup that talks were rock solid this time
and I felt a tinge of geek-excitement hearing that from him.

## Object Oriented Programming Paradigms in Python

Fast forwarding to the meetup day. The meetup began once again by
Vijay our Benevolent Host For Life (BHFL) welcoming everyone to
another edition of meetup. The first talk of the day was "Object
Orient Programming Paradigms in Python" by Chandrasekhar Babu.This was
a refreshing talk that debunked many myths on the state of Object
oriented programming in Python. The talk made a great deal of sense to
people like me who started with OOP in Java thanks to an engineering
curriculum without knowing what programming is at the first place
(Sigh!). The speaker through his witty Slide points titled 'Pythonism'
took us on a ride through the wonderful object oriented world of
Python. Ideas such as 'Everything in Python is an object', 'duck
typing' etc were reinforced thanks to a crisp wonderful talk. The
humorous anecdotes matched well with the pace of the talk and the
pleasure was certainly ours in listening.

## Writing Parsers in Python by Hand

KS Sreeram gave a talk on "Writing parsers in Python by Hand" and it
is no exaggeration to say that it would have been one of the most
anticipated talks at Chennaipy. As someone who slept through most of
the 'Compiler construction' classes back in college, I had initially
doubted whether I would understand anything at all. But then Sreeram
surprised a great deal by saying that creating a parser is much like
assembling a collection of Lego bricks and it is inherently very
simple. The slide which began with a dragon exhaling fire (a tribute
to the much dreaded Dragon book perhaps ?) moved gently to a dragon
built using Lego bricks. A parser takes some string as input, it
basically checks for a format or rule ; if the format matches the
input is passed forward else the input position remains unchanged -
This simple idea of building rules one by one and combining them was
demonstrated effectively through code snippets. As the talk got over,
I felt more smarter at having learned the basics of a really cool
concept and a riveting question on how I had managed to clear this
particular paper without knowing much remained. Well, learning never
stops.

<a
href="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/1/a/1/6/600_439206678.jpeg">
<img
src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/1/a/1/6/event_439206678.jpeg"
alt="Networking Tea Break" style="float:right"/></a>

## Networking Tea Break

Break time @ Chennaipy and the Chennai weather gods took all of us by
surprise with a sudden downpour of rain. The tea and the biscuits
paved way for many interesting conversations among the Python geeks of
Chennaipy with a much more pleasant weather as the backdrop this time.

## Managing Jenkins with Python

The next talk was by Vijay on the topic of "Managing Jenkins with
Python". This talk was super useful for me to know some of the best
practices in implementing CI, Vijay was briefing us on how he used
AutoJenkins a python package for connecting with Jenkins and how it
can save us from the trouble of handling multiple jobs. Speaking from
his own experience at his organization where he manages around 150
jobs via Jenkins, he explained the very basics on what constitutes as
CI practice and how Jenkins come into the picture. The talk was in
effect an elegant solution that he was able to find to fix the problem
of violating DRY principle by copying jobs multiple times. As Jenkins
is something that I use extensively at my project, I could possibly
relate more to this talk more than the others and I could realize very
quickly that there are lots of neat things that could be done with
Jenkins than what I had expected.

## Building Websites using Plone

"Building websites using Plone" was the next talk which was given by
Suresh. I had a brief chit chat with him during the break and was
playfully asking when we could have a next 'free for all' debate
reminiscent of net-neutrality, the sportive person he is ; he replied
something along the lines of he 'is ready for it provided Shrayas is
also there'. That brought laughter across our faces and then
discussions moved gently to Plone. Skipping to the actual talk, Suresh
started with a basic overview on Plone which is a CMS system built
using Python. He explained us on how Plone is a great option for
people who are looking to setup a website and Plone with many of its
add-on features makes the job of designing a CMS system pretty
easy. He also touched on places where Plone is used and it's track of
record for being very secure. There was supposed to be some demo which
he couldn't share unfortunately due to a bug on his machine.

## Vote of Thanks

And then it was time for the Vote of thanks. Vijay thanked the
sponsors of the June Meetup 'Clay labs' and everyone else who attended
the meetup braving the heat and the rain. At this point, someone in
the crowd suggested something along the lines of 'we should thank
Vijay for all his effort in organizing the meetup', on hearing which
the audience broke to a thunderous applause - a nice gesture to
see. Vijay also hinted on a possible Python conference in Chennai
which is certainly something to look forward. After small wonderful
conversations with the Python folks (err I should say Pythonistas), we
all eventually left from IMSc with the satisfaction and gratitude of
having spend an evening well.

Meeting minutes contibuted by <a
href="http://www.meetup.com/Chennaipy/members/182939340/">Krishna
Sangeeth</a>.
