Title: February Meet Minutes
Date: 2015-03-24 06:00
Tags: Meeting Minutes
Summary: <img src="http://photos2.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/8/2/c/c/global_434733484.jpeg" alt=""/> <img src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/8/2/d/e/global_434733502.jpeg" alt=""/> <img src="http://photos3.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/c/1/9/6/global_434869558.jpeg" alt=""/>


## Preparing for the Day

This month we decided to do a beginner's workshop on Python, on the
same day as the meetup. The workshop would be in the morning, while
the meetup will be in the afternoon.

Myself (Vijay Kumar) and Shrayas were supposed to handle the sessions
while a had a handful of people will be assisting us. Unfortunately, I
had to back-out due to a severe throat infection. So, we roped in
Krishna Sangeeth to handle the sessions.

With the trainers in place, we needed a venue. It was quiet a struggle
to get a venue to host the workshop. Fortunately Adaptavant, located
in Ascendas, offered space to host the workshop. Thanks to James
Mortensen.

## The Workshop

Though I hadn't recovered completely, I wanted to make it to the
workshop, to help coordinate the event.

<a
href="http://photos2.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/8/2/c/c/600_434733484.jpeg">
<img
src="http://photos2.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/8/2/c/c/event_434733484.jpeg"
alt="Hands-on at the Workshop" style="float:right"/></a>

Entry into Ascendas was one thing that needed special care. Thanks to
the high profile security, it is a pain to get an entry into IT parks
like Ascendas, and people from Adaptavant were very helpful in that
regard. It was just unfortunate that many people who RSVPed for the
workshop, did not turn up for the event. Nevertheless we had 15 people
from the community and 10 people from Adaptavant participating in the
workshop.

<a
href="http://photos2.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/8/2/d/e/600_434733502.jpeg">
<img
src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/8/2/d/e/event_434733502.jpeg"
alt="Shrayas Explaining" style="float:right; clear:both"/></a>

The workshop went almost as planned. The attendees were very receptive
and from the feedback we received later on, people did find it very
useful. The workshop format had theory and hands-on interleaved, and
we were using the Google Python Class material as reference. The nice
thing about the exercises in the Google Python Class, is that, it
includes test cases for each question. So people know if their answer
is correct or is there any case they haven't taken care of. As a
side-effect, this greatly reduced the work of people assisting in the
hands-on.

After the workshop, we invited people to the meetup happening in the
afternoon.

## The Meetup

We had to hurry a bit to the meetup, after lunch. IIRC, the meetup had
120+ RSVPs, setting a new record in Chennaipy's history. When we
reached the Ramanujan Auditorium, we found that we had also set
another record in Chennaipy's history, for the lowest ever
actual-turn-out to RSVP ratio! We had about 45 people in all, which
was still a great number, and the best part was most of them were
people who were regular at the meetups!

### Lightning Talks

Shrayas anchored the event this time, and I was behind the camera
trying to record the event. The following talks were done in the first
half.

<a
href="http://photos3.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/c/1/9/6/600_434869558.jpeg">
<img
src="http://photos3.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/c/1/9/6/event_434869558.jpeg"
alt="BigData and MapReduce Talk" style="float:right"></a>

  * A Lisp powered Python by Shrayas
  * BigData and MapReduce by Krishna Sangeeth
  * Remote Control your PC using Python and Kivy by Vengatesh

Vengatesh' talk deserves a special mention. Staying true to his topic,
Vengatesh used an Android app and server program, he had developed, to
switch slides on his laptop. The communication happened over
Bluetooth. And to top it off he showed how the phones's accelerometer
sensor can be used to remotely control (over bluetooth) a car game
running on the laptop / PC. The audience spontaneously burst into
applause at the end of the demo.

And in the second half we did the following talks.

  * Using Python to Play Cupid by Anil Kumar
  * Tips and Tricks in IPython by Gaurav
  * Learn Working of Accelerometer using Micro Python by Rengaraj
  * My Python Experience by Shrikant Giridhar

Rengaraj brought in a Micro Python board, and showed video demos of
this code, where he used the accelerometer to control the brightness
of the accelerometer.

Shrikant decided to change his topic on the fly, from Git to "My
Python Experience". He discussed about various cool Python scripts he
had written to perform some day to day tasks, and the Python libraries
he had used.

### Credits and Logo Contest

Shrayas thanked everybody who helped organize the event. After which
Shrayas announced the Logo Contest. A user group like Chennaipy,
deserves its own logo! And it was best to get the community to come up
with a great logo for Chennaipy. And hence the Logo Contest.

### Sparks

After the talks, Shrayas invited people to come up and share their
thoughts. We had a handful of people coming up on stage and sharing
their views. Nelson Anand, was one of them. He had attended the
workshop in the morning, as well. He told us, how excited he was to be
part of the workshop and the meetup, and how he had been checking the
meetup page frequently (it happened to be more frequent than his
Facebook page!). He thanked people behind the event for organizing
such workshops.

## The After Effects

After the meetup, as usual, we had some people still hanging around,
discussing and chitchating. We got Karthik and few others to support
us in converting the meetup videos.

Earlier, we had a feedback from some students that meetups on
Saturdays, were hard to attend. We wanted to do a quick check if
people would prefer to have the meetup on Sundays. We had missed it
during the meetup, so we checked with the people who had stayed back.
Since most of them were OK with it, we decided to have the next meetup
on a Sunday.

As usual, the crowd dwindled, and finally I left the venue,
lighthearted. Lighthearted because, the group has grown to point,
where it can self-sustain. Chennaipy will continue to rock, long after
I am gone. :-)
