Title: March Meet Minutes
Date: 2016-04-19 00:00
Tags: Meeting Minutes
Summary: <img src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/9/e/5/4/global_448420532.jpeg"/> <img src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/9/e/5/7/global_448420535.jpeg"/> <img src="http://photos2.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/9/e/5/5/global_448420533.jpeg"/>

This time the meetup took place at DUTA SOFTWARE INDIA Pvt Ltd. As
usual the meetup context was set by Vijay Kumar in order to set the
expectation of the crowd.

## Building a Tic Tac Toe AI in Python

The first session started around 3:20 PM. Kiran Gangadharan started
the session explaining the Tic Tac Toe game in the context of finding
a solution based on the moves that system will encounter during a two
player game, one being a human and another being the program build
with AI. Analysis mainly included possibilities of the moves a player
will make and how the program should make a counter move. The Problem
was taken up as a MinMax problem so that program writtern in that
approach can make appropriate moves to maximize the possibilities of
the system to win the game. He introduced a Naive and Hueristic
function Approach and he also stated about Alpha Beta Pruning also as
a approach for approaching gaming solutions. Watson and AlphaGo were
Quoted as available AI solution when Questioned about extension of
solution for multiplayers and next level of complex games like Chess.

## Rethinking Spreadsheets

Followed by kiran's Session, Vijay Kumar took the lead and started his
presentation on "Rethinking Spreadsheets". He stated that he wanted a
nice Command line tool in the place GUI based spreadsheet, so he
created this utility. He used Yaml data format to represent
spreadsheet data and custom expression which starts with "=" to
represent formulas required. The input Yaml data file is provided to
YAMLCalc program to evalutate the expressions and derive the data
based on formulas. He used watchMeDo to simultaneously create output
data by running the python program.

## Networking Tea Break

<img src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/9/e/5/4/global_448420532.jpeg"/>
<img src="http://photos4.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/9/e/5/7/global_448420535.jpeg"/>
<img src="http://photos2.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/9/e/5/5/global_448420533.jpeg"/>

## Rethinking Spreadsheets - Continued

Vijay Kumar continued his session post Networking Tea Break. He moved
on with different data with array of data samples to show the changes
in output. He had different view types support in his program. In his
demo, he showed how one could create an pie chart, dough nut and bar
chart with his program, which intern makes use of pygal to create
charts.

## JPEG Compression

JPEG Compression Session was taken by Ashok. He started his session
questioning the audience - how one could compress the Image data. With
various answers from the audience he moved his presentation to point
out the types of Lossy JPEG Compression available. He stressed on
requirement of dimensional reduction with co-ordinate transformation
and its requirement on data science.

Note: "Gradual Typing - Introduction, purpose and a small look at
`mypy`" session was skipped.

## Credits

Thanks to [Babu](http://www.meetup.com/Chennaipy/members/177868122/)
for the beautiful photos. And thanks to [Narendran
Solai](http://www.meetup.com/Chennaipy/members/150383872/) for the
meeting minutes.