Title: August Meet Minutes
Date: 2016-08-29 11:39
Tags: Meeting Minutes
Summary: <img src="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/c/4/global_453560932.jpeg" alt=""/> <img src="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/d/b/global_453560955.jpeg" alt=""/> <img src="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/2/6/f/global_453561103.jpeg" alt=""/>

The non-stop drizzle, the quiet IMSc environment and vibrant
pythonistas set the context and expectations for the August
meetup. However, plans took unexpected turns when the speakers got
delayed due to the drizzling rain outside and the traffic created by
it. Vijay took the stage to engage the audience with round of
introductions and a generic Q&A session on python and the
community. All of them took the opportunity to introduce themselves
and a few asked some interesting questions. With the speakers not
turning up yet, Vijay announced a lightning talk session.

## Lightning talk - Using Robot Frame work to test Dbus interface

Rengaraj from Zilogic systems took the opportunity to present an idea
he was working with (DBus), explained the design and asked for
feedback and contributions. Kudos to Rengaraj - though it was a
lighting talk, taking to the stage with no slides and preparation
within few minutes summons respect and appreciation.

## An introduction to Flask by Hafizul Azeez

<a
href="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/c/4/600_453560932.jpeg"><img
src="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/c/4/event_453560932.jpeg"
alt="Hafizul Azeez Presenting His Topic"/></a>

As an emergency talk, Azeez gave a brief description of Flask and how
it can be used for rapid application development. Azeez highlighted
the difference between the micro web framework, Flask and how it is
compared with a batteries included framework like Django. He gave a
brief demo of how a simple Flask web app looks like and explained the
code behind the app.

He also made slight changes to the code with the inclusion of html
templates and how parameters can be passed from the client side to the
server side through Flask routes a.k.a end points. In the process, he
said how the Flask framework supports a design pattern called MVT
(Models, Views and Templates) and how it all works in orchestration to
make the web app.

He also gave additional inputs on extending the Flask app with Plugins
and highlighted a few prominent plugins like FlaskWTF (for Forms),
Flask-SQLAlchemy (for databases), Flask-Login (for managing user
logins, authentications, session management and cookies) and few
additional modules (like Jsonify). Overall, the session received
positive inputs considering that it was planned to be a filler (till
speakers arrive) lightning talk but turned to be a 20 minute talk.

   This talk was followed by tea and networking. The cool weather
   outside (something Chennai misses too often) and the hot tea and
   coffee inside added energy to the already pumped up
   pythonistas. Getting to know new people, shaking hands, answering
   queries, taking feedback accompanied with good weather - whoa, just
   awesome! Speakers turned up sometime back and two more talks to go
   as per schedule.

## Computer Vision with Deep Learning by Manish Shivanandhan

<a
href="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/b/3/600_453560915.jpeg"><img
src="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/b/3/event_453560915.jpeg"
alt="Manish Presenting His Topic"/></a>

Manish started with an introduction of deep learning and how machine
learning and deep learning differs. Machine learning is more of
recognising patterns and deep learning is more of learning about
patterns. Manish covered the different types of learning - supervised,
unsupervised and reinforcement and gave examples for each of these
types; along with classification and regression and provided real life
examples (housing prices, stock prices etc) to compliment the
understanding.

Coming to neural networks, Manish hinted various algorithms are used
for deep learning and one of them being Neural networks. He also
deciphered as to why Neural networks is getting so much traction these
days!? - and attributed it to the increasing computer processing power
and the exploding amounts of data.

He also highlighted the use cases of Neural networks and its
advantages and limitations. Prominent examples being: Computer vision
- pattern recognition in images Creative usage - generating
text/music/speech

One interesting exampling Manish gave is the JK Rowling (Author of
Harry Potter series) case and how Neural networks helped identify when
one of her books was written in another pen name (which was not JK
Rowling). This captivated the audience much more as this is some thing
almost all of the audience can correlate with. He also stressed the
importance of Neural networks in the health care domain in finding
cure for diseases.

He covered how neural networks can be used in Computer vision and deep
learning. He gave insights into how to take a problem and represent it
in numbers so that deep learning can be used. He also hinted that if
any problem can be represented in numbers, deep learning can be
used. He demoed with an image, flattening it and showing the numbers
behind it and highlighted that with enough numbers and processing
power, patterns can be learnt by Neural networks. He complimented that
with the Prisma case study where researchers took a lot of art
manually, scanned it and fed neural networks to learn how the great
artists like Picaso would have painted the picture (the brush strokes,
the pressure applied etc). So when an image (like selfie) is fed into
the Prisma application, the computer generates the art form of the
image- i.e. how the image would look like if it was a painting from
Picaso and the likes. This further stressed how deep learning can be
used and how neural networks can be trained provided sufficient clean
data is fed into it.

Finally, he gave an introduction to TensorFlow and its distinct
abilities when compared to other frameworks like Theano. Manish
finished his talk with resources and references for further
exploration of Neural networks and details about his upcoming
webinar. Oh yes, he answered a lot of questions on deep learning from
an inquisitive audience who were awed by the potential of deep
learning and bitten by Manish's enthusiasm.

## Behaviour Driven Development by Naren Ravi

<a
href="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/d/b/600_453560955.jpeg"><img
src="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/1/d/b/event_453560955.jpeg"
alt="Nare Presenting His Topic"/></a>

Naren provided the background of the talk with a short description of
what Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) is all about - i.e. testing
the code with the user in mind and meeting the expectation of the
stakeholders rather than just testing the code.

He started with the waterfall model, the advantages and it's
limitations. He gave insights into why testing in the later stages of
the cycle makes life difficult - if bugs encountered and to finally
discover that the design itself is flawed bringing up frustrations.

He then covered how the first optimization on the waterfall model was
done with testing the code and informing the development and how
further optimization was done to the waterfall model with both testing
and construction (coding) done parallely. Though these optimization's
were done, Naren stated that there was an inherent disadvantage that
was left with - i.e. the design cannot be tested. The solution is to
bring the design into the development i.e testing, coding and design
all tested parallely which is the Test Driven Development (TDD).

Naren then added that even TDD won't suffice as the requirement
analysis stage is completely left out. He then questioned the
possibility of scope (requirements) change and how the SDLC model
would adopt it!? Bringing the analysis cycle into the above cycle of
testing, code and design becomes the BDD, he concluded. This gave an
overall picture of the BDD - testing (test cases) first, construction
(coding) and the design and finally checking if all of it matches the
requirements.

He added that in some context, this is how lean startup works. Develop
a product with a new feature, send it to market, get feedback and then
add a new feature, send it to market, gauge the reactions and the
cycle goes on. Overall, it was a well structured talk starting with
the traditional waterfall model to TDD to BDD and what optimization's
were made on the way. He answered a few questions later to help bring
more clarity into BDD.

## Conclusion

The meetup ended with Vijay thanking the venue and networking over tea
sponsors, speakers and the rest who made the meetup a successful
event. He also asked attendees to register in the mailing list to keep
abreast of the happenings in the Chennaipy community.

<a
href="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/2/6/f/600_453561103.jpeg"/><img
src="https://a248.e.akamai.net/secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/2/6/f/event_453561103.jpeg"
alt="Group Photo"/></a>

## Credits

* Thanks IIMSc for the venue.
* Thanks Azeez for Sponsoring Networking over tea.
* Thanks to all the speakers.
* Thanks Azeez for meeting minutes.