Title: July Meet Minutes
Date: 2015-08-13 04:36
Tags: Meeting Minutes

Yet another chennaipy meetup with huge audience from different
background.  This time RSVP hit was 128. Good too see lot of people
came.  Vijay started with Introduction about the meetup. Vijay this
time used slides for meetup agenda.  Vijay explained clearly that
meetup won't teach python but it gives pointers to various topic in
python and how they used.  So he insisted everyone to note down what
they don't understand in a talk and Google it to learn that.

## Automating testing using selenium

As usual vengats favorite topic automating software's using python.
He gave a talk on how they used selenium to upload Interview test
exercise to cloud coder.  He faced a problem that cloud coder has no
element ID to locate elements. He solved it using xpath.

## Data Science 101

Gaurav gave a talk on How pandas numpy and scylearn is used in data
science. He analyzed various data based on Titanic disaster data.  If
i am right he uploaded the code to [kaggle](http://www.kaggle.com) to
know how much accurate his prediction.

## Building Git From Scratch

Vijaykumar built a tiny git and showed us how git works.  In fact the
talk gave a broad view of how version control system works.  He
incrementally explained the implementation of tiny git He changed the
actual git command to tig (the reverse of it :-)) He stopped the talk
at version 2 of tiny-git and left it to audience to read themselves.
His git repository for tiny git [Tiny
GIT](https://github.com/bravegnu/tiny-git)

## The beauty that is PostgreSQL - Part 1

Shrayas and Karthick gave a combined presentation on PostgresSQL.

First Karthick gave his presentation on how rows are inserted in to
PostgresSQL DB. He explained python code snippets for PostgressSQL
queries.

Next Shrayas explained Why we should use PostgreSQL.  The interesting
thing is how he is developing such a wonderful presentation. I was
amazed to see the templates he used for his presentation.  He
explained the simply city and speed of postgreSQL DB.  He compared it
with traditional database like MySQL.
