Title: April Meetup
Date: 2015-04-22 21:00
Tags: Events

<a style="float:right;" class="pure-button"
href="http://www.meetup.com/Chennaipy/events/221774493/"><i class="fa
fa-check-square-o"></i> RSVP on Meetup</a>

## Date & Time

  * 25th April
  * 3:00pm to 5:30pm

## Venue

Ramanujan Auditorium, IMSc,  
C.I.T Campus,  
4th Cross Street,  
Tharamani,  
Chennai.  

Location map:
[http://www.google.com/maps?q=12.994337,80.247170](http://www.google.com/maps?q=12.994337,80.247170)

## Schedule

  * Lightning Talks (40 min)
  * Networking Tea sponsored by [Zilogic Systems](http://zilogic.com/) (30 min)
  * Lightning Talks (40 min)
  * Discussions (20 min)

## Talk Details

### Managing Desktops with Ansible

Speaker: Vijay Kumar

Desktop administration is generally done manually. This is painful,
especially when then are large no. of systems that are geographically
distributed. This talk will show how configuration management tools,
like Ansible can be used in pull mode, for desktop administration

### Leveraging Python Development with Virtual Environment

Speaker: Gaurav Sherawat

Virtualenv simplifies the process of managing version of packages in
python. Developing isolated application with virtualenv is bliss. It
addresses the problem of dependencies, version and incorrect
permission.

### Building commandline interfaces with ArgParse

Speaker: Shanmuga

argparse is the recommended command-line parsing module in the Python
standard library to reduce the time and effort spent on parsing and
validating sys.argv. It converts command-line from obscure combination
of parameters to meaningful and usable interface.

### Building a development environment using Vagrant

Speaker: Vengatesh

Vagrant is a tool for creating, configuring and managing a complete
development environment which can run on local virtualized platforms
such as VirtualBox or VMware, in the cloud via AWS or OpenStack, or in
containers such as with Docker or raw LXC.

### for i in "Iterable"

Speaker: Shrikant Giridhar

A primer on iteration in Python Description: A quick primer on
Python's iteration constructs, how they work and how they're
implemented.

### Python, Gmail & the IMAP protocol

Speaker: Shrayas

Quick talk on how you can access your Gmail account (and any other
account too actually) via the IMAP protocol using python's imaplib
library

## RSVP

Please RSVP on our [Meetup
page](http://www.meetup.com/Chennaipy/events/221774493/).

## New to Python?

if you are new to Python, you can make best use of the meetup, if you
go through any of the following resources, before attending the
meetup.

* [Invent Your Own Computer Games with Python, Chapters 1 - 9](
http://inventwithpython.com/chapters/)

* [Google's Python Course (with Lecture Videos)](
https://developers.google.com/edu/python/)

* [How to Think Like a Computer Scientist, Chapters 1 - 12](
http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/)
